# Chapter 4

## 4.3 Multi Threading Models

This is where it got interesting

We should find some examples of many to many implementations

## 4.4 Thread Libraries

The Windows example is interesting. Using `DWORD` for everything instead of structs. Also like that the `wait` function is the same for processes and threads. DWORD is just an unsigned long. Weird they don't just say that.

### Java

Hell ya "new" Java examples!

The Java example is longer than the Windows one.

"Drivers" classes bring back memories...

Are Java threads still 1-1 with kernel on Windows?

The term `future` for a result is older than I thought it was

## 4.5 Implicit Threading

tasks->threads-> tasks = rage

Thread pools and how much they can accomplish does make containers sound so heavy and explain why job frameworks were such a big thing at one point.

Windows has built in thread pooling?!?!

Java unbound thread pools = bad news bears if your time sync is off

### Fork Join

`Fork Join` TOO MUCH NOUN REUSE
Seems pretty cool though.
Figure 4.17 makes my head hurt
I want examples of this fork join java stuff!

It's wild how much effort is put into this pooling and fork/join stuff. If you assume every "proper" engineer knows all of this and can use it appropriately (think Chris from Deloitte) then know wonder things like containers and stripped down languages like Go took so long to come around.  I'm starting to wonder if the Go paradigm of small programs that do very little and then using things like containers and service meshes take care of things like process management and layer 7 stuff is really the only way to have a simpler code base. Since things like ruby and node are just abstractions built on top of all of that.

### OpenMP

Is this the missing thread pool and fork-join stuff for C?

### Grand Central Dispatch

This is wild and probably terrible?

### ITBB

Man, C++ is ugly.

#### Linux Threads

Tasks are processes or threads?! /rage

clone() -> new process, new thread, or new container?!?!

Need to learn more about the linux process model