# Chapter 1

## Interrupts

1.2.2 Interrupts -> Intel Ch. 6

* Faults: Like a WARNING, recoverable (curr instruction -> curr instruction)
* Traps: breakpoints, syscalls (curr instruction -> next instruction)
* Aborts: Like an exception (??? -> ???)

AMD has interrupts that don't happen on instruction boundaries?

What instruction addresses are recorded/passed for aborts?

    To allow the restarting of program or task following the handling of an exception or an interrupt, all exceptions
    (except aborts) are guaranteed to report exceptions on an instruction boundary. All interrupts are guaranteed to be
    taken on an instruction boundary.


System Management Interrupts are wild: https://wiki.linuxfoundation.org/realtime/documentation/howto/debugging/smi-latency/smi

Interrupt pointer caching?!

There is a lot of protection/isolation that goes into this...

    Because IA-32 architecture tasks are not re-entrant, an interrupt-handler task must disable
    interrupts between the time it completes handling the interrupt and the time it executes the IRET
    instruction. This action prevents another interrupt from occurring while the interrupt task’s TSS is
    still marked busy, which would cause a general-protection (#GP) exception.


This seems hella slow. Why wasn't 64bit IO stupid faster early on? Did this make multi core even faster?

Does the OS/Drivers/Firmware build up the interrupt vector, descriptor table, stack table, and gates?

It's wild how I've already found some differences in different processor family (atom, pentium pro, etc)

Timer interupts are cool! (OS Keep Alive)

    grep 'CONFIG_HZ=' /boot/config-$(uname -r)

## MISC

This book's got jokes!

```
Idle lawyers tend to become politicians, so there is a certain social value in keeping lawyers busy.
```

How are multiprogramming and tasking different?

Multimode = rings

```
a fast-growing area of research and implementation.
```

I like this phrase

Distribiuted OS: QNIX!
Kinda what kubernetes is? but not really at all...did we go wrong?

Red Black Trees -> kahn.gif
The data structures section is straight up the data structures class

compute/file server description is wonky

The fuck is `Eucalyptus`

```Although the Homebrew user groups of the 1970s
exchanged code during their meetings, the operating systems for hobbyist
machines (such as CPM) were proprietary```
I like the comparison between OS dev and computer hobbyist

http://www.dmoz.org/Computers/Software/Operating_Systems/Open_Source/