# Chapter 5

## 5.1.3

NonPreemptive = Scheduling based on processes putting themselves in waiting states or terminating.
Does this correspond to GCP's use of the term?

Mutexes! I wondered why this hadn't come up yet.

## vmstat

Is this a subset of sysstat? Yes.

## 5.3.3 Round Robin

This makes cgroups and time slices make sooooo much more sense. It's not time slices -> configurabel time quantum in RR algorithm

## 5.3.4

```Rumor has it that when they shut down the IBM 7094 at MIT in 1973, they found a low-priority process that had been submitted in 1967 and had not yet been run```

This is great ^

### Thoughts on 5.3

I have a feeling linux is a combo of all of these.

Go look at the system76 scheduler thing's source code

## 5.4 Thread Scheduling

They're just processes so who cares?

## 5.5 Multiprocessor

We just switching from using the term process to thread...

## 5.5.2

First time book uses "architecture state". Seen this in intel docs, need to figure out what it is.

Hyper threading/SMT also helps while waiting on memory.

## 5.6

Poke at Canonical's real time kernel

## 5.7.1 Linux

Figure out how cgroups relates to nice values (if it does at all). They've pretty much overridden them with systemd now.

## 5.7.2 Windows

The shared design from unix was neat. Wonder if that came from the desktop focus.
"SMT Sets" reminds me of Azure scale/replica sets.

## 5.7.3 Solaris

This is WILDLY different than I thought it would be.
It's wild how this is more similar to windows. It feel like the OS provides more vs Linux.

```To see the full dispatch table on a Solaris system or VM, run dispadmin -c TS -g```
Yes please.

## 5.8

Find the netflix blog post where they did this then made hints out of the results.

### Exercises

Just the one project this time. Try to do it in Go. Time permitting go back and do that that kernel module from chapter 3.