# Chapter 09

### Low vs High memory

Low: Memory for witch logical/virtual mappings exist.
High: Memory beyond the kernel's ability to keep mapped. (This doesn't really exist in 64bit systems since 2^64 is a lot of addresses);

It is not the separation of kernel vs user space memory.

### LOWMEM vs HIGHMEM

In linux LOWMEM (or normal memory) is the "first" (there's an offset in at least Intel for dma stuff) 896MB of RAM for the kernel's instructions and data. The remaining 128MB of memory is referred to as HIGHMEM and used for virtual memory mapping.

Basically neither of these exist any more thanks to 64bit CPUs.

### MMU

MMU = memory management unit. I'm guessing IOMMU is how devices on a mother board are mapped to parts of memory.
MMU is hardware...How is this different than virtual memory? (They are still sequential and/or easily computable). Virtual Memory is another Mapping on top of pages witch is on top of the MMU
This also explains why you have to by MOBOs that "do it right" MMU In intel is all in the cpu and multiple bits of hardware.

### MISC

DLL = shared library

Why do we care about memory being contiguous? -> we don't, its called paging

huge pages = arch dependent alternate page size larger than the default 4k

```
Frequently, on a 32-bit CPU, each page-table entry is 4 bytes long, but that size can vary as well. A 32-bit entry can point to one of 232 physical page frames. If the frame size is 4 KB (212), then a system with 4-byte entries can address 244 bytes (or 16 TB) of physical memory.
```
Why? ^

processes do declare how much memory (num pages) they need.

```
The logical addresses are translated into physical addresses. This map-ping is hidden from the programmer and is controlled by the operating system. Notice that the user process by definition is unable to access memory it does not own.
```
HA!

It feels like all this could be handled better by the CPU?

Special hardware spot for pointing to page tables is cool. And special cache.

In Linux is shm actually shared pages?

```
In fact, the term swapping now generally refers to standard swapping, and paging refers to swapping with paging.
```

translation granules is dumb

Read intel bits on memory protection, pages (size specifically), Translation Look Aside Buffers (also ASID support)
